My fellow citizens: I stand here today humbled by the task before us, grateful for the trust you've bestowed, mindful of the sacrifices borne by our ancestors.
I thank President Bush for his service to our nation -- (applause) -- as well as the generosity and cooperation he has shown throughout this transition.
Forty-four Americans have now taken the presidential oath. The words have been spoken during rising tides of prosperity and the still waters of peace. Yet, every so often, the oath is taken amidst gathering clouds and raging storms. At these moments, America has carried on not simply because of the skill or vision of those in high office, but because we, the people, have remained faithful to the ideals of our forebears and true to our founding documents.
So it has been; so it must be with this generation of Americans.
That we are in the midst of crisis is now well+++ understood. Our nation is at war against a far-reaching network of violence 
The day started out rotten. She overslept and was late for work. Everything that happened at the office contributed to her nervous frenzy. By the time she reached the bus stop for her homeward trip, her stomach was one big knot.

As usual, the bus was late ? and jammed. She had to stand in the aisle. As the lurching vehicle pulled her in all directions, her gloom deepened.

Then she heard a voice from up front boom, "Beautiful day, isn¡®t it?" Because of the crowd, she could not see the man, but she heard him as he continued to comment on the spring scenery, calling attention to each approaching landmark. This church. That park. This cemetery. That firehouse. Soon all the passengers were gazing out the windows. The man¡®s enthusiasm was so contagious she found herself smiling for the first time that day.

They reached her stop. Maneuvering toward the door, she got a look at their "guide": an older gentleman with a beard, wearing dark glasses and carrying a thin, white cane.

Youth is not a time of life; it is a state of mind; it is not a matter of 
rosy cheeks, red lips and supple knees; it is a matter of the will, a 
quality of the imagination, a vigor of the emotions; it is the freshness of 
the deep springs of life. 

Youth means a tempera-mental predominance of courage over timidity, of the 
appetite for adventure over the love of ease. This often exists in a man of 
60 more than a boy of 20. Nobody grows old merely by a number of years. We 
grow old by deserting our ideals. 

Years may wrinkle the skin, but to give up enthusiasm wrinkles the soul. 
Worry, fear, self-distrust bows the heart and turns the spring back to dust. 

Whether 60 or 16, there is in every human being¡¯s heart the lure of wonder, 
the unfailing childlike appetite of what¡¯s next and the joy of the game of 
living. In the center of your heart and my heart there is a wireless 
station: so long as it receives messages of beauty, hope, cheer, courage and 
power from men and from the Infinite, so long are you young. 

When the aerials are down, and your spirit is covered with snows of cynicism 
and the ice of pessimism, then you are grown old, even at 20, but as long as 
your aerials are up, to catch waves of optimism, there is hope you may die 
young at 80.